---
category : blog
date     : 2016-06-09T00:42:00+02:00
slug     : 1601
tags     : [grilo, gsoc]
title    : "Grilo updates!"
type     : "post"
---

Nothing like talking about Grilo to keep the blog going and to be honest
I have some interesting things to talk about.

## Grilo 0.3

The major release happened almost 6 months ago and it has brought some
API/ABI changes being my favourite the merge of all Grilo media types
into GrlMedia
([\#755551](https://bugzilla.gnome.org/show_bug.cgi?id=755551)); This
introduces support from Grilo to different types of media!

Well, to be pedantic, it was always possible to have different media
types in Grilo on GrlMedia but it is more clear to applications by
merging GrlMedia{Audio,Video,Image,Box} in GrlMedia; It should also help
us to identify problems with media types that were not originally
supported, such as
[\#767182](https://bugzilla.gnome.org/show_bug.cgi?id=767182)

I expect this change will increase the interest in Grilo for a whole new
set of applications. For instance, with
[TheGamesDB](http://thegamesdb.net/) source we got support to metadata
for Games
([\#766678](https://bugzilla.gnome.org/show_bug.cgi?id=766678)) and I'm
excited to see how [Kekun](http://bytesgnomeschozo.blogspot.cz/) will be
using this in the gnome-games project!

## Plugins

A few other plugins have landed upstream as well. I've mentioned
TheGamesDB before but we also have iTunes Podcast, both written by
[Bastien](http://www.hadess.net/).

I was able to finally finish a plugin related to my GSoC in 2014:
[AcoustID](https://bugzilla.gnome.org/show_bug.cgi?id=732879). In the
end, we decided to split the audio decoding and the audio's fingerprint
generation in one plugin called Chromaprint and another plugin that
actually fetch data on AcoustID web service.

It took some time and the learning process was quite great by learning
GStreamer from scratch. As always, many thanks to Bastien for the
guidance and also to [thiagoss](https://twitter.com/thgss) by helping
out with the GStreamer bits :-)

PS: Three of the four plugins above were written in Lua :-)

## Google Summer of Code 2016

And we already are in the development phase of GSoC 2016! As always,
[exciting
projects](https://wiki.gnome.org/Outreach/SummerOfCode/2016/Projects/)
in GNOME.

I'm particularly interested in
[Music](https://wiki.gnome.org/Apps/Music) this year. [Gaurav
Narula](https://gnarula.com/) is working to have [ownCloud
Support](https://wiki.gnome.org/Outreach/SummerOfCode/2016/Projects/GauravNarula_MusicOwnCloud)
and [Saiful Khan](https://saifulbkhan.wordpress.com/) will be making
[Audio Tag
Editing](https://wiki.gnome.org/Outreach/SummerOfCode/2016/Projects/SaifulBariKhan_MusicTagEditing)
possible from Music. The \#gnome-music channel has been quite active by
having interesting and amusing discussions. I guess this will be a good
year for Music.

Big expectations as well with [Alexandru
Visarion](https://alexandruvisarion.wordpress.com/) working on Boxes in
order to have [More Spice
Features](https://wiki.gnome.org/Outreach/SummerOfCode/2016/Projects/AlexandruVisarion_BoxesSpiceFeatures)
- Yay! It was sheer coincidence as today we were discussing about shared
folders with Spice's webdav. That will be great to land in Boxes!

I wish all the students a great learning experience.

## Other news

Grilo has piqued my interest since before 2013 as neat project that I
could be using in one Set-Top Box that I had in hands; it then became
the project for my first free software contribution; it has been nearly
two years since my second GSoC but I'm still having fun with Grilo.

So, you could imagine how happy I am to become
[co-maintainer](https://twitter.com/victortoso/status/740079518984118272)
to this great project :)
