Grilo updates!
##############

:date: Thursday, June 09, 2016 00:42
:modified: Wednesday, March 15, 2017 09:50
:tags: grilo, gsoc
:category: blog
:slug: 1601

.. _#755551: https://bugzilla.gnome.org/show_bug.cgi?id=755551
.. _#767182: https://bugzilla.gnome.org/show_bug.cgi?id=767182
.. _TheGamesDB: http://thegamesdb.net/
.. _#766678: https://bugzilla.gnome.org/show_bug.cgi?id=766678
.. _Kekun: http://bytesgnomeschozo.blogspot.cz/
.. _Bastien: http://www.hadess.net/
.. _AcoustID: https://bugzilla.gnome.org/show_bug.cgi?id=732879
.. _thiagoss: https://twitter.com/thgss
.. _exciting projects: https://wiki.gnome.org/Outreach/SummerOfCode/2016/Projects/
.. _Music: https://wiki.gnome.org/Apps/Music
.. _Gaurav Narula: https://gnarula.com/
.. _ownCloud Support: https://wiki.gnome.org/Outreach/SummerOfCode/2016/Projects/GauravNarula_MusicOwnCloud
.. _Saiful Khan: https://saifulbkhan.wordpress.com/
.. _Audio Tag Editing: https://wiki.gnome.org/Outreach/SummerOfCode/2016/Projects/SaifulBariKhan_MusicTagEditing
.. _Alexandru Visarion: https://alexandruvisarion.wordpress.com/
.. _More Spice Features: https://wiki.gnome.org/Outreach/SummerOfCode/2016/Projects/AlexandruVisarion_BoxesSpiceFeatures
.. _co-maintainer: https://twitter.com/victortoso/status/740079518984118272

Nothing like talking about Grilo to keep the blog going and to be honest I have
some interesting things to talk about.

**Grilo 0.3**

The major release happened almost 6 months ago and it has brought some API/ABI
changes being my favourite the merge of all Grilo media types into GrlMedia
(`#755551`_); This introduces support from Grilo to different types of media!

Well, to be pedantic, it was always possible to have different media types in
Grilo on GrlMedia but it is more clear to applications by merging
GrlMedia{Audio,Video,Image,Box} in GrlMedia; It should also help us to identify
problems with media types that were not originally supported, such as `#767182`_

I expect this change will increase the interest in Grilo for a whole new set of
applications. For instance, with `TheGamesDB`_ source we got support to metadata
for Games (`#766678`_) and I'm excited to see how `Kekun`_ will be using this in
the gnome-games project!

**Plugins**

A few other plugins have landed upstream as well. I've mentioned TheGamesDB
before but we also have iTunes Podcast, both written by `Bastien`_.

I was able to finally finish a plugin related to my GSoC in 2014: `AcoustID`_. In
the end, we decided to split the audio decoding and the audio's fingerprint
generation in one plugin called Chromaprint and another plugin that actually
fetch data on AcoustID web service.

It took some time and the learning process was quite great by learning GStreamer
from scratch. As always, many thanks to Bastien for the guidance and also to
`thiagoss`_ by helping out with the GStreamer bits :-)

PS: Three of the four plugins above were written in Lua :-)

**Google Summer of Code 2016**

And we already are in the development phase of GSoC 2016! As always, `exciting projects`_ in GNOME.

I'm particularly interested in `Music`_ this year. `Gaurav Narula`_ is working to
have `ownCloud Support`_ and `Saiful Khan`_ will be making `Audio Tag Editing`_
possible from Music. The #gnome-music channel has been quite active by having
interesting and amusing discussions. I guess this will be a good year for Music.

Big expectations as well with `Alexandru Visarion`_ working on Boxes in order to
have `More Spice Features`_ - Yay! It was sheer coincidence as today we were
discussing about shared folders with Spice's webdav. That will be great to land
in Boxes!

I wish all the students a great learning experience.

**Other news**

Grilo has piqued my interest since before 2013 as neat project that I could be
using in one Set-Top Box that I had in hands; it then became the project for my
first free software contribution; it has been nearly two years since my second
GSoC but I'm still having fun with Grilo.

So, you could imagine how happy I am to become `co-maintainer`_ to this great project :)

